{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss Helv;}{\f1\fmodern Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\footnote\pard\plain
#{\footnote\pard\plain About Othello}
K{\footnote\pard\plain aboutOthello}
${\footnote\pard\plain About Othello}
\pard\plain\f0\fs20
The game of Othello is played on an 8 by 8 board. There are 64 markers which have contrasting
colours on their opposite sides (red and blue or black and white for monomchrome displays). Initially
the first four markers are placed diagonally in the central four squares.
\par\par
The players place markers on the board in unoccupied squares. Each marker must be placed so that it is
adjacent to an enemy marker, either orthogonally or diagonally. In addition, the marker must be placed
in line with a friendly marker and separated from it by one or more enemy markers (and no empty spaces).
All enemy markers so flanked are reversed so that they become friendly markers. Markers remain fixed during
a game, but a marker may be reversed any number of times.
\par\par
If the placing of the marker simultaneously captures two or more chains of enemy markers, the markers in all captured chains
are reversed.
\par\par
Pieces may be captured only by the placing of a marker. Enemy markers flanked at both ends as the result of other causes
(such as the reversal of some marker) are not captured.
\par\par
If a player cannot make a legal move he loses his turn. He continues to lose
his turn until a legal move becomes possible for him.
\par\par
The game ends when all 64 squares are filled, or when neither player can move. The winner is the player
with the most markers on the board.
\par\par
Related information:
\par\tab {\v Playing the game}
\par\tab {\v Keys help}
\par\tab {\v Note}
\par\tab {\v Copyright notice}
\page

#{\footnote\pard\plain Playing the game}
K{\footnote\pard\plain playingHelp}
${\footnote\pard\plain Playing the game}
\pard\plain\f0\fs20
Choose {\b New} from the {\b Game} menu to start a new game and select the level of play which is either
Beginner, Advanced or Master by selecting the corresponding item on the {\b Options} menu. The current level
of play is indicated by a check mark left to the menu item.
\par\par
To place a marker, move the mouse pointer to an empty square. The mouse pointer changes its shape to
a cross to indicate that it would be possible for you to place a marker on the corresponding square.
Press the left mouse button to place a marker. You can also use the arrow keys to move around the board.
Press Enter, Return or Space to place a marker. If you or the computer has to pass, a message will
be displayed.
\par\par
Choose {\b Hint} to get a hint on a good move. Choose {\b Computer starts} if you want the computer to make
the first move.
\page

#{\footnote\pard\plain Note}
K{\footnote\pard\plain noteHelp}
${\footnote\pard\plain Note}
\pard\plain\f0\fs20
If a display driver for a monochrome display is 
installed, the red side of the markers will be displayed white 
and the blue side of the markers will be displayed black. 
Othello can also be played on computers
that have no pointing device installed or attached by 
using the arrow keys instead of the mouse.   
\page

#{\footnote\pard\plain Copyright notice}
K{\footnote\pard\plain noticeHelp}
${\footnote\pard\plain Copyright notice}
\pard\plain\f0\fs20
Entertainment Pack for OS/2
\par Othello
\par Version 1.0
\par All rights reserved.
\par Copyright (C) Peter Wansch, 1994
\par
\par January 28, 1994
\par Vienna, Austria
\page

#{\footnote\pard\plain Game}
K{\footnote\pard\plain gameHelp}
${\footnote\pard\plain Help for Game}
\pard\plain\f0\fs20
Use the {\b Game} menu to start a new game or to get a hint on a good move.
\page

#{\footnote\pard\plain New}
K{\footnote\pard\plain newHelp}
${\footnote\pard\plain Help for New}
\pard\plain\f0\fs20
Choose {\b New} to begin a new game.
\page

#{\footnote\pard\plain Hint}
K{\footnote\pard\plain hintHelp}
${\footnote\pard\plain Help for Hint}
\pard\plain\f0\fs20
Choose {\b Hint} to get a hint on a good move.
\page

#{\footnote\pard\plain Options}
K{\footnote\pard\plain optionsHelp}
${\footnote\pard\plain Help for Options}
\pard\plain\f0\fs20
Use the {\b Options} menu to change the level of play or to assign sounds to events.
\page

#{\footnote\pard\plain Beginner}
K{\footnote\pard\plain beginnerHelp}
${\footnote\pard\plain Help for Beginner}
\pard\plain\f0\fs20
Choose {\b Beginner} to switch the current level of play to the Beginner level.
The higher the level of play, the longer the computer spends calculating its move.
\page

#{\footnote\pard\plain Advanced}
K{\footnote\pard\plain advancedHelp}
${\footnote\pard\plain Help for Advanced}
\pard\plain\f0\fs20
Choose {\b Advanced} to switch the current level of play to the Advanced level.
The higher the level of play, the longer the computer spends calculating its move.
\page

#{\footnote\pard\plain Master}
K{\footnote\pard\plain masterHelp}
${\footnote\pard\plain Help for Master}
\pard\plain\f0\fs20
Choose {\b Master} to switch the current level of play to the Master level.
The higher the level of play, the longer the computer spends calculating its move.
\page

#{\footnote\pard\plain Player starts}
K{\footnote\pard\plain playerHelp}
${\footnote\pard\plain Help for Player starts}
\pard\plain\f0\fs20
Choose {\b Player starts} if you want to make the first move.
\page

#{\footnote\pard\plain Computer starts}
K{\footnote\pard\plain computerHelp}
${\footnote\pard\plain Help for Computer starts}
\pard\plain\f0\fs20
Choose {\b Computer starts} if you want the Computer to make the first move.
\page

#{\footnote\pard\plain Background color}
K{\footnote\pard\plain bgcolorHelp}
${\footnote\pard\plain Help for Background color}
\pard\plain\f0\fs20
Use the {\b Background color} menu to choose a background color.
\page

#{\footnote\pard\plain Background color item}
K{\footnote\pard\plain bgcoloritemHelp}
${\footnote\pard\plain Help for Background color}
\pard\plain\f0\fs20
Choose this color to display the background in this color.
\page

#{\footnote\pard\plain Sound}
K{\footnote\pard\plain soundHelp}
${\footnote\pard\plain Help for Sound}
\pard\plain\f0\fs20
Choose {\b Sound} to display a dialog window that lets you assign sounds
to events.
\page

#{\footnote\pard\plain Sound dialog}
K{\footnote\pard\plain sounddlgHelp}
${\footnote\pard\plain Help for Sound dialog}
\pard\plain\f0\fs20
Select {\b Sound} to activate sound for events.
\par The events list contains the names of all events you can assign sounds to.
\par The sounds list contains the names of all available sound files as well as an entry <No sound> and
<Beep>. To assign a sound to an event, select the event first and then double-click on the
sound that you want to assign.
\par Use the {\b Volume} slider to set the sound volume.
\par The {\b Play (>)} button plays the currently selected sound.
\par The {\b OK} button closes the Sound dialog and the changed settings
become active.
\par The {\b Cancel} button closes the Sound dialog. Any changes that were made
are discarded.
\page

#{\footnote\pard\plain Help}
K{\footnote\pard\plain helpHelp}
${\footnote\pard\plain Help for Help}
\pard\plain\f0\fs20
Use the {\b Help} menu to obtain help information.
\page

#{\footnote\pard\plain Help index}
K{\footnote\pard\plain helpindexHelp}
${\footnote\pard\plain Help for Help index}
\pard\plain\f0\fs20
Choose {\b Help index} to display the help index.
The help index lists the titles of the help information that is available.
\page

#{\footnote\pard\plain General help}
K{\footnote\pard\plain generalhelpHelp}
${\footnote\pard\plain Help for General help}
\pard\plain\f0\fs20
Choose {\b General help} to get general help for the program. General help provides
general information about Othello.
\page

#{\footnote\pard\plain Keys help}
K{\footnote\pard\plain keyshelpHelp}
${\footnote\pard\plain Help for Keys help}
\pard\plain\f0\fs20
Choose {\b Keys help} to see a list of keys and a description of the function of
the keys.
\page

#{\footnote\pard\plain Keys help detail}
K{\footnote\pard\plain keysdetailHelp}
${\footnote\pard\plain Keys help}
\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\b CONTROL KEYS}
\par\tab Arrow keys: Move you around the board in the direction of the arrow.
\par\tab Enter, Spacebar, Return: Places a marker.
\par\tab Ctrl+N: Starts a new game.
\par\tab Ctrl+H: Gets a hint.
\par\par
{\b HELP KEYS}
\par\tab F1: Gets help
\par\tab Esc: Views previous Help panel or ends help if only one panel has been viewed.
\par\tab Alt+F4: Ends help or ends program.
\par\par
{\b SYSTEM KEYS}
\par\tab Alt+Esc: Switches to the next program.
\par\tab Ctrl+Esc: Switches to the Window List.
\par\par
{\b WINDOW KEYS}
\par\tab Underlined letter: Moves among the choices on the action bar and pull-downs submenu or
executes the function chosen.
\par\tab Alt+Underlined letter: Executes the function chosen immediately.
\page

#{\footnote\pard\plain Using help}
K{\footnote\pard\plain usinghelpHelp}
${\footnote\pard\plain Help for Using help}
\pard\plain\f0\fs20
Choose {\b Using help} to obtain information on how to
use the Help facility.
\page

#{\footnote\pard\plain Product information}
K{\footnote\pard\plain prodinfoHelp}
${\footnote\pard\plain Help for Product information}
\pard\plain\f0\fs20
Choose {\b Product information} to view a dialog that displays information about Othello, such as version
number and copyright notice.
\page

#{\footnote\pard\plain Product information dialog}
K{\footnote\pard\plain prodinfodlgHelp}
${\footnote\pard\plain Help for Product information dialog}
\pard\plain\f0\fs20
This dialog displays information about Othello, such as version
number and copyright notice.
\par The {\b OK} button closes the product information dialog.
\page
}
